---
sidebar_position: 10
title: 🚧 v7.0
---

Version 7.0 release note
========================

:::warning
**Warning**: This release note corresponds to a **future** first minor version of the **future** major version which is in **EARLY DEVELOPMENT** stage.
It means it is **absolutely not yet suitable** for production.
:::

:::info
**Note** This release note is also in its early stage redaction.
:::

Compatibility breaking changes
------------------------------

### JVM related

The platform is now compiled at JVM 21 level (vs 17 for previous major version 6 and 11 for previous major version 5).

This has no impact except if you where using in your some some Java APIs marked as deprecated for several Java versions
and that may have been finally removed.

:::note
Our `latest` Docker images are built with a JVM 21 since major version 5, if you had deprecated Java APIs usage
you should have already seen it when compiling your code within the platform.
:::

### Tomcat related

The target Tomcat version for major version 7 is now 11.

**To be completed**

### Third party libs related

Some outdated third party Java libs have been removed:
  - Apache commons `commons-discovery` lib
  - **To be completed**

If you use them in your code you can still add them specifically.

### Long text fields behavior vs truncation

- `FeatureFlag.TRUNCATE_TOO_LONG_TEXT` is set to `false` by default.
  - the UX/UI is not impacted because field inputs are already limited to the max size
  - but the API create/update will get an error if a data is too long (against data truncation in 6.3)

Deprecations
------------

### JVM related

All JVM core APIs marked as deprecated since version 17 **should** be refactored in your code as of now if you use them
in order to avoid compatibility breaking change in the future.

Features
--------

- Nothing so far...

Enhancements
------------

- Nothing so far...

Maker Experience
----------------

- Nothing so far...

Technical
----------

- Nothing so far...

### Docker images

There is no impact if you use out of the box images.

If you customize these images at Tomcat level there might be some impacts because the version 7.x images are using Tomcat 11 which
configuration files may slightly differ from Tomcat 9 used in previous versions' images.
Make sure to review, and potentially adapt, your customization Dockerfiles.

### Simplicité Instances Manager (SIM)

See [this document](../add-to-sim/v7.md) for details on how to add version 7.0 on an existing SIM server
